10/5/17 What is Debugging Mode? And other things you don't find in Sublime Text.
<br>
<br>
Debugging Mode in Visual Studio is akin to opening a rails app by starting the server in the terminal. The command "rails server" in terminal starts the server that hosts your app. You can then open local host in your browser to whatever server number your rails app is running on. In Visual Studio, the standard toolbar at the top includes a dropdown menu with "continuous integration," "debug," "release," and "staging." To the right of that is another dropdown menu with "Any CPU," "Mixed Platforms," "x86," and "Configuration Manager." To the right of that is a dropdown button with "Google Chrome," "Firefox," "Internet Explorer," "Microsoft Edge," "Browse With," and "More Emulators." When I want to open the .NET project I'm working on in the browser, I select "Debug," "Mixed Platforms," and "Google Chrome." That is essentially the same thing as typing "rails server" in the Terminal to open a Rails app I'm working on. This illustrates one of the differences between using a standard (albeit awesome) text editor like Sublime Text (which is what I'm using right now to write this markdown page), and using an IDE (Integrated Development Environment) like Visual Studio, to develop an app. Sublime text is lightweight and you need to be more hands-on with your system in order to get things done, whereas Visual Studio is heavy; there are hundreds of features that help you to develop your app, and many of them have designated buttons (e.g. "Open File," "Changes," "Find Symbol Results"), which means that instead of manually searching for bugs like in Sublime Text, Visual Studio gives you tons of information when something goes wrong; hence, "debugging mode." You can easily add breakpoints to your code so that you can "step in" and investigate the state of your app at any point. 
<br>
<br>
<i>For example, you click to the left of line 22 in your html code, and it adds a little red breakpoint dot. You start your app in debugging mode, and go to that html page in your browser. When the app hits line 22 of the code, the app will pause. In Visual Studio, you hover your mouse over @employee.name in line 22 of your code, and a pop-up box will say "null," which tells you that whatever instance of Employee is being called, there is no value for the name attribute. Sublime Text lacks that feature, so if you were using only Sublime to develop your app, you would have had to go to the Terminal and find the information through Rails console.</i>
<br>
<br>
One of the reasons Visual Studio may seem confusing at first for those who have never used it, is that you can't simply create a stand-alone file like in a text editor like Sublime or Atom. In Visual Studio (and even in the lighter version, Visual Studio Code), you must create a "solution" or a "project". The .NET app at my company, for example, is made up of solutions, projects, and layers. 1 Solution > 7 Projects (aka Layers) > Folders > Subfolders > Files. Each project/layer is named for its purpose. For example, one of the seven layers is the Test layer. Another layer is the Business layer, which contains the classes/models. And another layer is the Web layer which houses the Views and View Factories (which includes HTML). (Side note:The model/view/controller layout of .NET is similar to Rails.) In Visual Studio, you can hover over an instance variable, e.g. @employee, and a link pops up that allows you to go straight to its corresponding controller.
<br>
<br>
The Visual Studio interface, as with other IDE's, also includes version control maintenance, e.g. Git. This means you don't need to make commit and push commands through the Terminal or command line. There is a version control window/toolbar with buttons and windows for making your commit messages, and the window also allows you to see all of your git branches. You can switch branches, delete branches, and create branches all with the click of a button.
<br>
<br>
This is not an advertisement for Visual Studio over Sublime Text, by any means. In fact, I prefer to do most of my work through Sublime. For small, simple projects like a TIL markdown collection, for example, Visual Studio would be clunky and overpowered. But for some large projects, especially those written in .NET, using an IDE is ideal because it provides necessary features that Sublime doesn't have.